Jerry Michalski: This is the Open Global Mind weekly call for Thursday, September 4th, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: On the first Thursdays of every month, we do a check-in call, where we have
Jerry Michalski: funky little check-in routine that I think most everybody… I think everybody who's here has done before, but I'll just repeat it briefly.
Jerry Michalski: I am not going to be a traffic cop during check-in. Everybody just sort of volunteers to step forward and check in. Only once, please, no comments back and forth.
Jerry Michalski: We have a moratorium on chat while we're checking in, so please don't use the chat, but you can save stuff in your chat, just don't hit enter. And then, once everybody's gone once, I'll step in, and we'll go to usual sort of salon mode, and then free for all in the chat is okay.
Jerry Michalski: During check-in mode, we like pauses, so quiet moments are not awkward moments, they're moments like Quaker Meeting, where you're appreciating
Jerry Michalski: the moment, or the people, or the setting, or whatever you'd like to appreciate. That works great. That's one of the reasons we developed this check-in mode, was to have some quiet.
Jerry Michalski: Even while we're busy, like, Zooming and all that.
Jerry Michalski: And,
Jerry Michalski: And don't empty your brain of everything that's on your mind. Try to be moderately brief so that we can get through check-ins and get to conversations. So, check in on something sort of OGM-y that's in your head, that's, that's with you.
Jerry Michalski: But don't… don't tick off, like, the list of things you've banked for the week that you wanted to tell everybody at OGM about. That's a little… usually that's a little too long.
Jerry Michalski: With that, I'm going to mute my mic, and whoever would like to can step in, and we'll be off and running.
Jerry Michalski: Rick, you ever thought… thought?
Jerry Michalski: Or a question?
Jerry Michalski: Nope, I just heard some noise from your mic.
Jerry Michalski: Sean, I just explained the check-in routine, which I think you're familiar with, correct?
Jerry Michalski: Not hearing Sean yet, but we shall see.
Jerry Michalski: Alright, I will mute, and whoever would like to go first, take your time, and go first.
Kevin Jones: Well, I'll go. People on this list know I was in the heart of Helene in Swanonoa.
Kevin Jones: Which was the part of the impact.
Kevin Jones: And… we gave up on FEMA and have moved to an apartment in the River Arts District.
Kevin Jones: But, and my kids might be able to create what they want out of the…
Kevin Jones: Land that's behind, but we can't think about it.
Kevin Jones: But I met this morning with the woman who leads the…
Kevin Jones: The outside of the safety net, work.
Kevin Jones: She got some funding, and they have 7 people that work with Suwanoa Cares.
Kevin Jones: A lot of Latinos, 3 of them used to clean Airbnbs, but they were community leaders, and now they're paid to be
Kevin Jones: sort of social workers in that space, and I… but it was great, because I wanted to know… so she finally had to give up and take a couple weeks in the south of France and get away from the sadness. It's a…
Kevin Jones: Our devastation remains, and we're a low-status neighborhood, and they're not doing anything, and the county is…
Kevin Jones: And nothing is happening. And,
Kevin Jones: So, but she went back to it, and so I wanted to meet with her and say, how are you doing this?
Kevin Jones: She explained that's who she is, and it turns out that there is some money to create a third place, and some of that is coming into here, and I can help her organize the capital around, you know, she has a nail salon, and there's a
Kevin Jones: They're renting a quick stop, and, you know, there is no place people gather. Eleanor Ostrom said.
Kevin Jones: Watersheds can be managed 47% better by ranchers than by the government if they have a place where they meet regularly and have informal conversations, and the…
Kevin Jones: There's not treaties, but the relationships up and downstream are… are transparent.
Kevin Jones: And we have nothing like that. There's no grocery store, it's gone, the post office is gone, the hardware store is gone, all the restaurants are gone, so…
Kevin Jones: Creating that, and then trying to stop the land rush of folks, you know, we're the… before the flood, we were $100,000 less per house, and we were $300 less per rent.
Kevin Jones: And so,
Kevin Jones: Anyway, it's really neat to… there's a certain place I can be working with the people, working with the people with the problems, but if I'm down there, I'm really terrible, and can't stand the sadness. She can stand the sadness, and so it was really encouraging.
Kevin Jones: that, you know, oh, there's a place for me to be able to look at Swano, because I, you know, it's… we lost a million bucks on the land and house, and so it's hard to think about.
Kevin Jones: But,
Kevin Jones: It's a way to think about it, and I'm gonna work on a thing with my kids, and so…
Kevin Jones: I'm really glad to not be immersed in that sad place. We're in the arts district, and the artists are determined to
Kevin Jones: Work in these live-work lofts and sell, and so they're coming back in the places that weren't totally flooded, and it's not sad.
Kevin Jones: And with these trauma areas, you just… you know, some people can be around the sad for a long time and live with it, and I couldn't do it.
Kevin Jones: So anyway, it's a little bit encouraging, even though,
Kevin Jones: It's a neglected, low-status area, and people have forgotten about Helene.
Kevin Jones: But, you know, nobody relies on the federal government anymore, so…
Kevin Jones: We have that, but there are ways to invest without the federal government, through community investment funds in land, so we're looking to
Kevin Jones: it's just great to, you know, I can actually think about doing what I do without having to be down in where it's… it's just too sad to go.
Kevin Jones: to where I used to live, because it's, you know… Gardens covered by sand dunes.
Kevin Jones: That's my checkout.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: not to respond to Kevin, but, Kevin, hearing what you said reminds me of stories I've seen this week about New Orleans.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And how… And how much has not been recovered?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Since their devastation, what, 10 years ago now?
Kevin Jones: 20.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: 20.
Kevin Jones: Low-status neighborhoods, after the emergency stuff.
Kevin Jones: leaves are still low status, you know, that's the thing. It's the low status that doesn't change.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Others… We're trying to prevent conversation.
Kevin Jones: Right. Anyway, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: But I appreciate this.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We're not conversing, we're just sharing observations.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But, yeah. Friend of mine for me, besides… well, I guess I'll say two things.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: At the national level, I'm really struck by the conversation of people who say, it's all over, nobody's doing anything.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: quote, nobody's doing anything. It's a meme that I hear a lot. And in fact, there's lots of people doing lots of stuff, and various, you know, Heather Cox Richardson and others are chronicling that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm… Glad to see…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Glad to see the state's rights focus shifting to the blue states now, as Washington, Oregon, California, Illinois, and so forth are starting to mount.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: a different, different level of resistance.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: In personal terms, it's been a very body-focused week for me this week. I fell on Sunday and, quote, sustained a concussion, as they say. Yeah, and I'm okay. It was mild, you know, no cracks in my head, no bleeds, etc.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I learned that if you're over 65 and you fall, or if you're on auto… if you're on anticoagulants and you fall, you go to the ER, period, even if you feel fine. So, learned that one.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But the protocol, there's a concussion is not a clinical diagnosis, it's a… it's a, you know, symptomatic diagnosis, and the deal is that you have to rest.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And if you don't rest, your body will enforce the rest.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And the major advisory is to stay off screens.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And mental stimulation, which screens are a vivid kind, because there's lots of sensory input, and man, that's hard to do!
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: In this modern life. You know, so I've… I've done it a lot, and I'm much more… much less engaged, but it's hard… for me, it's hard to be completely unplugged.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I had a fairly busy day Tuesday,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Lots of coaching, coached a client on an acquisition, and coached a client on a career development, and coached a client on,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: A product launch, and new positioning for a company, and like, you know, engaged on the calls, full on, full presence, and then just wiped out.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Afterwards. Just, like, wiped out. Yeah, you know, I have to sit down for a couple hours and close my eyes and not do anything, which is… I noticed that my normal recourse when I relax is to pick up this thing and scroll.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's like, nope, don't do that. So it's been very, very humbling and grounding, in a way, to just sort of be back in touch with the rhythms of the body and learn how that works, and
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There was some conclusion about that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, just, you know, running at a very different pace this week.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, that's… that's what I have to say for now.
Rob O'Keefe: So I can, I can jump in, go next. I think many of you know that I'm not on these calls too much. I typically have a work meeting that, canceled today to be able to join, and
Rob O'Keefe: I live in Washington, D.C, and it feels like
Rob O'Keefe: there's some people paying attention to what is going on in DC, but I also feel like since Elon has left.
Rob O'Keefe: Sort of a side effect of him in not engaging is some of… some of the attention that… maybe… maybe some of the outrage that he drew is… it's not there as much.
Rob O'Keefe: when there just continues to be, you know, thing after thing after thing after thing, attacks on what I would call a tax on the federal government.
Rob O'Keefe: People that have given their lives, careers to, government service, whether, whether those services are delivered,
Rob O'Keefe: you know, to the levels that we all want is another story, but these people are, you know, putting their heart and soul into the missions of the government.
Rob O'Keefe: you guys may not know that there's a government shutdown coming at the end of September, and most people think that the government will shut down, just because it's such a heightened political environment.
Rob O'Keefe: There's a couple of options that could happen. One could be a partial shutdown, where they figure out budgets for certain agencies, or it could be a complete shutdown.
Rob O'Keefe: Of course, even with a complete shutdown, people that are deemed, or positions, or roles, or missions that are deemed essential keep working, so then there's this whole process of figuring out who should get the label of essential, and then what are those rest of the people, like, hey, you're not essential.
Rob O'Keefe: Like, thanks!
Rob O'Keefe: So, our company does consulting for the federal government, so that potentially will be an impact for us, but probably not.
Rob O'Keefe: For reasons I won't go into. On a personal note, my daughter is entering her sophomore year at NYU, and so we dropped her off. She is in film school, which, on the one hand, is like,
Rob O'Keefe: you know, top jobs that will be replaced by AI, although I'd say that in jest because… and she and I had talked about this, and I said, the world needs storytellers, and whether you're using AI tools or, you know, holding a camera or painting with a brush, you know, that there's still… there's still…
Rob O'Keefe: room and needs for storytelling, and I think at some point, I think most of us think there'll be a…
Rob O'Keefe: What's the word? Appreciation for authentic art. I think even already, we're getting so sick of
Rob O'Keefe: AI-generated stuff, so I think, I'm… I'm excited. I think she'll be a… if her current interests continue, she'll be a documentarist, so that will be interesting. She's interested in all kinds of things. Interesting as a film…
Rob O'Keefe: school student, she watches very few movies. So she loves Broadway shows, she loves being in the theater, she watches some episode TV, but not a lot of long-form movies, which I think is kind of interesting.
Rob O'Keefe: So I'm dropping her off in New York City. We're there, we're there periodically through the year, and just reminded that the energy level of New York is just unmatched. The people mixing in all walks of life, all economic statuses co-mingled,
Rob O'Keefe: and struck me about DC,
Rob O'Keefe: which has been labeled as this crime-ridden city, which it's not. New York, gets similar labels.
Rob O'Keefe: And I think people that are outside these cities just hear the headlines, and they just buy the headlines, and that's just sort of been something I've been thinking about. Certainly, there are…
Rob O'Keefe: crime… high crime areas of every city, but there's also concentrations of artists and musicians and restaurants and food and creativity. So, as with everything in life, it's a… it's a mixed… it's a mixed bag.
Rob O'Keefe: So yeah, I think for me, I just continue to try to… limit…
Rob O'Keefe: sources, you know, feeds… feeds of information, try to be more selective, pick and choose the things that I want to ingest, and then try to reflect on them and… and see what…
Rob O'Keefe: Try to… try to have clarity on my views of topics and things that are not just headline… headline-driven.
Rob O'Keefe: So yeah, I think I'll, I'll wrap it up there.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, maybe add… add a photo. I've been,
Klaus Mager: So focused on the, on the food part of the economy.
Klaus Mager: And, and, you know, pretty much on a, on a, meta level, because I've worked
Klaus Mager: I'm on the,
Klaus Mager: advisory team for federal policy for the Sierra Club, for example, now Farm Bill Policy, and…
Klaus Mager: the Citizen Climate Loppee, and, and
Klaus Mager: the Alcoa organization, so I've been, closely tracking, you know, what is happening policy-wise.
Klaus Mager: And, and tried to…
Klaus Mager: To have some influence on this and provide, you know, some, some feedback that, hopefully is helpful, but…
Klaus Mager: So from that position, I've stepped way back, because I'm just feeling it's a complete waste of time. The Sarah Club sends a team to Washington, lobby team, and you talk to
Klaus Mager: members of Congress who just cashed a half million dollar check from some lobbyist, and then the Silver Club shows up and has an opinion, you know? I mean, it's just… it's just, hopeless.
Klaus Mager: But what really strikes me is…
Klaus Mager: The… the destructiveness of this current administration.
Klaus Mager: Because the food system, you know, is a massive contributor to environmental degradation.
Klaus Mager: Not just… not just carbon emissions, but the… not the…
Klaus Mager: pollution of water tables, of watersheds, chemicals, overloading the natural environment. I mean, it's just a horror show. And the scale of it is absolutely incredible, and the scale is increasing. I mean, they're doubling down on…
Klaus Mager: On these practices that are so… that are so harmful to, the entire, ecology. The, you know, the,
Klaus Mager: the, biosystem.
Klaus Mager: So, I've been working with AI now to build up an intelligence.
Klaus Mager: That, that can assist, you know, to, to, to, to create a, a transition from.
Klaus Mager: From this current industrial system.
Klaus Mager: Into a more regenerative form of functioning, you know, generating food and growing and raising food.
Klaus Mager: And because of, you know, my background, I… and, and, you know, some…
Klaus Mager: really training I got with Gene, working with Gene Bellinger for the last 6 years or so, and I'm really thinking through, on… on what this, all means from a systems perspective.
Klaus Mager: You know, from the farmer to the consumer, and the entire supply chain in between.
Klaus Mager: You know, the AI…
Klaus Mager: that we have, you know, I'm not allowed to say training, but configured, was actually a funny thing. My AI…
Klaus Mager: objected to me, saying that I'm training it. Just, no, no, you are… this is a configuration process, not a training process. Okay, fine, whatever, but,
Klaus Mager: We, we, we… I mean, I have, you know, configured now 6 agents that are starting with the farmer, that are going through the, the, moving, moving product from the farm to…
Klaus Mager: the… to the market, and then the market, and so on. Anyway, it's, it's a… it's a total systems reconfiguration process.
Klaus Mager: And it's very difficult to get traction, because the…
Klaus Mager: The regenerative movement is so splendid, you know, you have so many groups everywhere doing something, and they're all doing good work, but it's not scalable, it's self-contained, it doesn't share, you know, learnings in an organized fashion.
Klaus Mager: So that's, you know, where, where I've been, hoping to, to, to engage,
Klaus Mager: Because the AI that… the way this thing can work is…
Klaus Mager: that you don't need to have, like, a massive database. If we can get anybody who wants to work within the regenerative frame to just use a few keywords in their website, you know, in their materials.
Klaus Mager: the AI will find you, right? So if we are working within, let's say, a bioregion.
Klaus Mager: let's say a community high desert of bend, or anywhere, really, anyone who wants to participate just needs to, say, put some keywords out there, and the AI will find you, know what you're doing.
Klaus Mager: So anyway, I'm… I'm… I finally got, our first project here. It's a course called Aqual Regenerations.
Klaus Mager: I'm hopefully not violating any rules here, Cherry, but here is the group that we're working with, so we actually have our kickoff meeting later today.
Klaus Mager: they already… this is another scrappy startup. They are highly ambitious in a way of creating tools to assist small farmers, and they are headquartered in Kenya.
Klaus Mager: They currently have 40 locations, with groups of farmers signed up.
Klaus Mager: And, we decided to partner where I provide the back of house, intelligence system.
Klaus Mager: also my own skill set, really, because I need to guide them into what type of data they need to source from these farmers and from the farm support, supporting groups, so that we can then work with this. But,
Klaus Mager: it's… it's a, you know, regenerative system transformation. They are… they are appealing to the United Nations and to, I mean, groups linked to the UN and others to get funding, so we are, you know, doing a joint funding launch.
Klaus Mager: So we'll see where that goes, but… the…
Klaus Mager: The challenge that I see, really, is that the industrial sector, where the money really sits, is doubling down and doing the same damn thing.
Klaus Mager: just with more emphasis. You know, you see the same thing that you see in the energy sector, where they're cutting out wind and solar and batteries and all? You see the same in food now.
Klaus Mager: Where we are saying you need to stop taking… using these GMO seeds, you need to stop using all these chemicals to grow food, and then they're doing the opposite, they're doubling down on it.
Klaus Mager: So, I don't know, it's… it seems to be… it seems to be, you know, a tough slug to… to, convince people to…
Klaus Mager: to join. I'm trying to get something launched here in my own backyard in the high desert of Bend. And now I'm…
Klaus Mager: I'm connected now with some people who retired here. There's one guy who stepped up into our advisory team. He's a retired Salesforce executive, and he was pretty high up in Salesforce, and…
Klaus Mager: You know, he has, you know, looked at what we're doing, and he wants to help us to launch.
Klaus Mager: And… and get organized, so…
Klaus Mager: the story resonates, you know, we have been able to… to,
Klaus Mager: To get, you know, folks interested in doing it, but the people who are on the ground and who are working day intensely on a day-to-day basis have a very difficult time to see how they can integrate with us.
Klaus Mager: And how that would make sense.
Klaus Mager: So, it's, I mean, it's extremely disturbing, you know, to watch this political process, because it's just so painful to, to see the damage these guys are doing, you know, to, to, on a civilizational level,
Klaus Mager: And, and, and how,
Klaus Mager: how there is just no collective response. I mean, there is just…
Klaus Mager: Scattered opinions and scattered efforts, community-based, nothing that has any chance of scaling so far.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, so anyway, that's where I'm at.
Rick Botelho: Yeah, I'd like… go ahead, Sean, go ahead.
Shawn Murphy: No, no, go ahead, go ahead.
Rick Botelho: There are two themes that I want to touch on. One was Kevin, about what's happening in Asheville in terms of the inequities
Rick Botelho: The systemic inequities that are baked into the system.
Rick Botelho: And Klaus, you were talking a moment ago about the fact they're, they're, you know, within the regenerative movement, they're splintered.
Rick Botelho: I don't think that splintering is unique to that movement, it's all over the place, and that's part of the problem of, bringing people together.
Rick Botelho: To take on the systemic psychopathy that we're living through, and the systemic prejudice
Rick Botelho: against equity. You know, people have heard me talk about this before, about equity metagovance as a way of thinking about how to bring people together over the process rather than the content.
Rick Botelho: We have so much content out there that we're not very good at handling the process of the content.
Rick Botelho: And last week's session on sense-making, the thing that came up for me Was the notion of co-intelligence.
Rick Botelho: And two nights ago, I decided to take the plunge.
Rick Botelho: And, spend 200 bucks for one month.
Rick Botelho: on Perplexity AI to see whether it's really worth getting access to the additional resources that you might be able to do through it, because I'm fascinated about the whole issue of co-intelligence.
Rick Botelho: And, you know, I remember a while back, Scott, if he's listening, you know, looked at one of my questions and says, oh, it's too complex, and, you know, he sort of thought about it, whatever. And, you know, one of the things that I've, I've become really interested in is how
Rick Botelho: how we can actually… there is a sort of, I'm gonna exaggerate this for the sake of making a point.
Rick Botelho: that we're actually living with the, the cult indoctrination of a KISS principle.
Rick Botelho: And I mentioned the KSSS principle before, in terms of keeping sophistication, this side of simplicity, and we talked about this last time, Kraus.
Rick Botelho: Although I think the integral framework is incredibly useful, but I think literacy level, comprehension level, is adequate. If you want to go in the spiritual domain, absolutely, it's a useful framework for thinking about different levels of consciousness, but in terms of trying to bring people together.
Rick Botelho: I mean, I think that's the biggest challenge.
Rick Botelho: Anyway, this is a bit of a popcery of comments here, because on Labor Day, I went to the Labor Day parade.
Rick Botelho: And a friend of mine was actually carrying the flag of the McDems, and, you know, Mark Kelly was supposed to be in the, you know, doing an event there.
Rick Botelho: With them. And I, I joined him, I put my hand around him, he says, hey, where's Mark Kelly? He says, he's over there. And I said, okay. I went over and had a chat with him.
Rick Botelho: Which is a, you know, just an opportunistic thing. And I spoke with him, and he put me in contact with his, administrative assistants, and I said, I've got some ideas, are you open to him? He says, yeah, here's my administrator. So anyway, I just got a text message back from the administrative
Rick Botelho: assistant saying, he was going to share what I, had, had worked on.
Rick Botelho: And,
Rick Botelho: So I, you know, you know, people say I haven't been listening to the fact that people are saying the same things. I have been listening, actually, but you don't know how deeply I've been listening, or how I'm responding to it, because I haven't had a response to do it.
Rick Botelho: So, when… when we go, open, I can share, I did a deep dive using Perplexity, looking at this whole phenomena.
Rick Botelho: of, this KISS indoctrination that we're entrapped with, and it's a splintering reductionist framework that makes it very difficult to deal with, complexity.
Rick Botelho: And so it goes against the grain, and we have to have new learning methods to be able to actually get people to collaborate across their divisions.
Rick Botelho: And I think I mentioned I'm involved in… I've backed off of working with Indivisible, because they're suffering with the same problem. They're divided. They can't get their act together either. And they're not good at having conflict. They don't know how to have healthy disagreement.
Rick Botelho: And some of the most successful change movers are the ones that actually Work it out.
Rick Botelho: The fact that there is huge differences within
Rick Botelho: the sort of progressive movement, you have to work it out. But people get so wrapped up in their little rabbit holes that they start, you know, squabbling amongst themselves in a way that doesn't advance the cause. Anyway.
Rick Botelho: So,
Rick Botelho: I just wanted to chime in there with the two themes that Kevin and Thao alluded to, and provide a different perspective to that. And on that note, I'm done speaking.
Shawn Murphy: I'm finding myself going deep on, on… on…
Shawn Murphy: Trying to really, really understand the… the… micro… level of… cognitive… interactions… intercognitive interactions twixt humans.
Shawn Murphy: As it relates to conversation.
Shawn Murphy: And the elaboration of people's, understandings and mental models during, conversational interactions.
Shawn Murphy: And interleaving those growing appreciations with
Shawn Murphy: An understanding of what the technical
Shawn Murphy: a low-level technical architecture needs to be, for a… an intercognitive, framework for,
Shawn Murphy: Yeah, capturing that.
Shawn Murphy: Traffic.
Shawn Murphy: To support, both synchronous and asynchronous, enhancement.
Shawn Murphy: With machine support.
Shawn Murphy: Yeah, I, really love Kevin's remark about, about the watersheds, being more manageable. In effect,
Shawn Murphy: The, the automatic, self-organizing character of, of watershed maintenance when people can communicate, gracefully.
Shawn Murphy: And, and I think that, that kind of… That kind of…
Shawn Murphy: Clean, self-organizing, beauty in, and…
Shawn Murphy: Intercognitive, in the intercognitive domain, is really…
Shawn Murphy: Where the great hope is for us.
Shawn Murphy: Forever.
Jose Leal: So maybe I'll, I'll jump in.
Jose Leal: It's been a while since I've done a check-in. It's probably been 2 or 3 months.
Jose Leal: I've, recently lost my business partner. He,
Jose Leal: He died, about a month ago.
Jose Leal: It's been a slow… process. He's… he was diagnosed with colon cancer.
Jose Leal: Stage 4, maybe about a year and a half, two years ago.
Jose Leal: So that's been a, a long road for him, for us, our community.
Jose Leal: And, I've come to, sort of… Realize that it's a…
Jose Leal: sort of a double-edged sword. You know that it's gonna happen.
Jose Leal: So it, you, it kind of…
Jose Leal: Slows you down, you don't want to rock the boat, you don't want to sort of start moving ahead without him,
Jose Leal: And then, at the same time, you're… you sort of feel this angst about, feeling, sort of…
Jose Leal: held back in some way. It's kind of… kind of a crazy thing, and so there's this… all of a sudden, there's this sense of…
Jose Leal: Sort of… release.
Jose Leal: And guilt all at the same time. It's very interesting, sensations.
Jose Leal: Meanwhile, The projects have continued, the… the work on…
Jose Leal: sort of our version of Neobooks, I've updated Jerry on that, has progressed. I'm pretty excited about this idea of a neobook being not only an open platform.
Jose Leal: Where the content is open source and editable, and people can contribute to it, and so on and so forth.
Jose Leal: But that it be, multimodal.
Jose Leal: Meaning, that, it's not just text, but audio, memes, video, presentations, and that all three, all of those layers,
Jose Leal: are actually related to one another, so the same…
Jose Leal: Type of content in text, say a paragraph.
Jose Leal: Might be reduced to, a meme, or, to a slide, or two, or, to audio in the form of a… typically an audiobook, or even a podcast component. And that all of these things are,
Jose Leal: you can… Go in and out of these layers.
Jose Leal: As a consumer of it. And by consumer, I don't mean purchaser, but a user. And so we're mocking a lot of this stuff up, both at the technical level.
Jose Leal: And that the, at the content level.
Jose Leal: We're developing something we call, a life fingerprint.
Jose Leal: That tries to model what's happening in this content?
Jose Leal: From a life perspective, what… What layer of complexity is… is acting and, and,
Jose Leal: Trying to get it down to a root level of definition.
Jose Leal: So that this content can actually be related, not simply by the words, cue terms, and so on and so forth, by the actual life flows that are happening within the content, or being described within the content. So, that feels powerful.
Jose Leal: Really complex, really difficult, but,
Jose Leal: Feels like a good exploration and a good direction to go.
Jose Leal: Ken was part of some of this work early on.
Jose Leal: And and we've continued that work of understanding some of that,
Jose Leal: life functions, and what these life functions do in context, and so forth. So that's… that's one of the projects. The first…
Jose Leal: thing that we're developing as a neobook in this context. We're doing these two things in parallel.
Jose Leal: Is serving life.
Jose Leal: And serving life is,
Jose Leal: the first neobook in this model. I know we have Neobooks in, the…
Jose Leal: another model of neobooks, which is just text. But this model where we have the multiple layers and the interactions and so forth.
Jose Leal: Serving Life, we… we hope to be the first book. So that…
Jose Leal: piece of it is, progressing well. We now have…
Jose Leal: Some new case studies,
Jose Leal: we've recently interviewed Kevin, for… for that.
Jose Leal: Hunter Levins recently, we interviewed, Alan.
Jose Leal: Savory from the, the Savory Institute, as well.
Jose Leal: A number of others in the space that are folks that we believe are moving towards… excuse me…
Jose Leal: Moving towards this new… Way of operating that recognizes that
Jose Leal: what we do is serving life. Sorry.
Jose Leal: And so… that model is,
Jose Leal: It's progressing well, the book's starting to feel like a book.
Jose Leal: In a clear narrative, at least we think so. We've had a few readers give us some really good feedback on it.
Jose Leal: And, we're hopeful that we can wrap this up by the end of the year.
Jose Leal: Whether it will be in the form of an e-book at that point, we're not sure, but at the very least, we'll have the content ready.
Jose Leal: For it to integrate into it, and…
Jose Leal: And our vision is that anyone who's writing, who's seriously creating a book nowadays, Is going to be…
Jose Leal: doing memes, they're going to be doing presentations, they're going to be doing audio versions of it. And that all of these things have to exist anyway.
Jose Leal: And so why not integrate them into one experience that, people can engage, do deep dives down into the… not only the text, but the supporting, data that's behind it?
Jose Leal: And… and do superficial, just…
Jose Leal: Float through the memes, or, float through the presentations.
Jose Leal: and at any time, do a deep dive into the material below it. So that's… feels exciting to… to think of a new model of experiencing content, producing content, and having content be,
Jose Leal: available to folks that don't necessarily want to just read a book, traditionally, so…
Jose Leal: Much more to update, but I'll leave it at that, because that's a pretty long update as it is. Thank you.
Scott Moehring: I think I'll go next, because it kind of…
Scott Moehring: dovetails with what you were saying, Jose. So…
Scott Moehring: Last week, we were talking about… collective intelligence.
Scott Moehring: And I've been thinking about the nature of collaboration for a couple of years, because I think it's…
Scott Moehring: I'm having a hard time finding great examples of it, which says to me that I think it's more limited than we say.
Scott Moehring: I've started to think of it as…
Scott Moehring: Working separately, then coming together to share, and then working separately again.
Scott Moehring: I'm… I'm trying to find… examples where… A group of pre… well…
Scott Moehring: A group of people get together and actually collaborate in a sense where it's not One or two working
Scott Moehring: and others… Being in the room.
Scott Moehring: And… I think what I've… I even looked at an electronic musician who…
Scott Moehring: Has been in the game for 40 years, and he did a collaboration project. And the way it was done was that he would set up some tunes, send the digital file to the other person.
Scott Moehring: They would modify it, send it back to him.
Scott Moehring: He would modify it, and they would go back and forth until they had a musical piece that they liked.
Scott Moehring: And I… I think about things like Wikipedia, which is sort of at the opposite end. You have
Scott Moehring: It feels like a collaborative effort.
Scott Moehring: And so it's just something I've been thinking about a lot, is what is the…
Scott Moehring: I think we throw around the word collaboration a lot.
Scott Moehring: Without really being honest about what the work entails, and I will leave this with the last thought.
Scott Moehring: it's very different from being on a team, because I think just being on a team doesn't mean that you're collaborating, in my sense of it. It's more that…
Scott Moehring: The genesis of the idea and the actual work is something that is…
Scott Moehring: two minds as one, sort of. And I've experienced it, but only… In fleeting moments where
Scott Moehring: My brain and someone else's brain are… are in… we both get it, and we're finishing each other's sentences… sentences and things like that, but it seems to me to be a rare thing that we keep seeking
Scott Moehring: We, meaning… I just see collaboration as a skill that…
Scott Moehring: People seem to want to develop.
Scott Moehring: and yet… maybe… It's not what we think it is, and so…
Scott Moehring: We're trying to create something that might not
Scott Moehring: actually be a way that people work together. So, that's my thought.
Jerry Michalski: I love our sharing of our projects and obsessions and scary life events like concussions and flooding.
Jerry Michalski: and all these other sorts of things. Thank you for all for showing up wholeheartedly. You may hear it in my voice, but April and I have been down with a bug since about the 22nd of August, so it's been a while.
Jerry Michalski: And this feels like a familiar bug. April came back from a trip and basically brought it home, and I nursed her for a couple days, and then I came down with it. And for me, the day I came down with it, I put a marker two weeks later in my calendar, which is still next week, that said, is my bug gone?
Jerry Michalski: Because in my experience, this is two weeks of coughing miserably, hacking up phlegm. In this case, like, my right eye is all tiered up, so apparently there's a bacterial infection that's accompanying this, that moves from eye to eye or something, and I don't know what, but it's like a couple very uncomfortable nights, but we can work, we can do stuff.
Jerry Michalski: Luckily, we don't have any performances that we have to miss because we're sick or anything like that, so it's all good. But we've been feeling kind of low.
Jerry Michalski: Hank Kuhn, who's not here today, but who is a frequenter of OGM, and I have had a couple calls around UpKeto.
Jerry Michalski: Which got mentioned somewhere, I don't remember where it showed up, but Hank was like, I love this idea of keto idea, let's talk. So we've had a couple of separate calls.
Jerry Michalski: Up keto is a neologism, it is a concatenation of upward spiral, or uplift, and Aikido, which is my sport. And, we've talked about Aikido a few times
Jerry Michalski: a few times in OGM, but Up Keto is just meant to be a practice. At this point, it's a thought experiment. Like, what would a practice be like if your intention was to improve everything you touch?
Jerry Michalski: to help upward spiral happen all over the time, with Aikido principles, meaning not coming in and bludgeoning things, but blending with sensing the energies, blending with, and then seeing what improvement went. And improve
Jerry Michalski: is the best word I've been able to find for it so far, but it's a really touchy word, because what I think might be an improvement of the situation might piss everybody off.
Jerry Michalski: Et cetera, et cetera. And then there are knock-on effects and so forth. So you've got to be thoughtful about this. But…
Jerry Michalski: But putting a… cracking a joke, or listening to the cashier at the store and cracking a joke and putting a smile on their face is up keto.
Jerry Michalski: Free hugs is up keto, and kind of non-controversial, because people can choose to walk up and hug you or not, whatever. But this notion that you might walk around and try to make everything better that you touch, I like a lot.
Jerry Michalski: And so, there's a baby… there's a fledgling website at UpKeto.com, but we started talking, and then I sat down with Claude.
Jerry Michalski: Not my friend Claude, but rather the new Alien Intelligence Claude.
Jerry Michalski: and posed some of these things to Claude, and Claude was, like, wonderful about this, and OMG, holy hell.
Jerry Michalski: you know, folded and asked a couple different questions, grew the whole thing, and I'm like, oh, this is really pretty good, I like this a ton. So expect to see some of that at some point. And so Hank and I, I created a private group on LinkedIn, if anybody wants to talk about UpKeto, when we released the town's
Jerry Michalski: of chat at the end of the check-in, I will post that link in the chat.
Jerry Michalski: So that we can sort of figure this thing out, and formulate it, and propagate it, and do whatever… whatever…
Jerry Michalski: whatever it wants to be, I'm really interested in helping it become, as long as it's not evil. Ha.
Jerry Michalski: Because I think the general concept… then maybe it needs a secret handshake.
Jerry Michalski: or a little pin or something that you, you know, you wear, I don't know, so that you know that, oh, this is an upkedo practitioner, they should be careful, they're a master of the dark arts of Apikido.
Jerry Michalski: I think things like this ought also be, like, fun, and slightly conspiratorial is okay. And then I realized also in the framing of UpKeto that there are some principles of UpKeto, and that they overlapped heavily, heavily, heavily with my principles of design from trust.
Jerry Michalski: that I've been formulating Design from Trust for a while, but lately I've been focusing on writing out, and will soon be posting.
Jerry Michalski: My method of posting is so fucking slow, because
Jerry Michalski: I… I write out the tendrils of an octopus of an idea, and then I need to finish all the tendrils before I post the main idea, because you're gonna go out to all the different little tendrils, and I… it gets complicated, and it winds up a little hard to finish, but…
Jerry Michalski: I'll post a link to the Principles of Design for Trust, which start with the very simple, assume good faith.
Jerry Michalski: Or good intent, whichever word you prefer. But assume good faith is, like, the grounding principle of design from trust, and it's a nice principle for Akido as well. And there's a bunch of others. In particular, in my brain, there's a thought of inspirations for the principles of design from trust.
Jerry Michalski: which points to a, I think at this point, very beautiful curated collection of other prints… other useful groups of principles from other groups around the world.
Jerry Michalski: that are awesome, that are just wonderful. So I've been borrowing from some of those and figuring out, like, what this might look like. But, anybody who's interested.
Jerry Michalski: join the group, or get in touch, or whatever, but it's been really fun to think about these things, because I'm trying… last thought, I'm trying really hard to figure out
Jerry Michalski: Positive things to be and do.
Jerry Michalski: At this particular moment of multiple crises.
Jerry Michalski: I'm trying to figure out a bunch of ways to walk into the world, like, that might attract people to go, yeah, yeah, yeah, I want to build, I want to do, I want to improve. And this is just… this is one of them.
Jerry Michalski: So, with that, I am… Today, so far. Complete.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So I found myself in a space of emptying out.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: We have our appointment at the Spanish Consulate, a week and a half from…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Now. Been going through the house, downsizing, selling stuff off, going through my life, going through my memories,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And I know that there's a new adventure coming, but right now it's about… Letting things go.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And it's painful.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And, and it feels somehow appropriate to the times in which I live, that so much is passing.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: trying to honor things that, have been a part of my life, both the good and the bad, and the ugly. So,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I'm just in a very interesting place that I'm not used to being in.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: when I took my coaching course 25 years ago, I was that…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: If you know the Zen story about the professor who went to meet the Zen master, and the professor's talking and talking, the Zen Master's pouring the tea into the cup until it's overflowing, if you need to empty your mind out, and the first thing I was assigned after being given a bunch of books was, MediaFast, you need to just let yourself settle.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So I'm in that space right now of letting things settle… again.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And not trying to take new things in, but to just honor what's gone before, and release it with grace.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Which is not easy.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: has a lot of poignancy. I've been in Marin County for 35 years, and I'm looking at leaving here in the next…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: between 3 and 6 months, and it's becoming very real. Someone came and bought all my CDs this… this past week. 980 CDs gone from my living room. It's like…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: it's naked in here, you know? And I have someone coming to look at my book collection, and…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So it's getting really very real.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Because we're not gonna bring a lot of stuff with us. We're bringing, you know, cookware.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Got it, my cast iron pans, and my pots, and my knives.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Clothing and artwork, and everything else is going by the wayside.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I was not a Zen practitioner, I was a Vipassana practitioner, but my life is becoming very Zen, of how do I just release this, and…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: live a simpler way, which also feels appropriate to moving into the last phase of my life, the third act, you know? This is… this is it, this is the last hurrah, you know? Moving to new culture, new country, new language, new people.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And I find that's giving me a strange detachment to what's going on in this country right now, because I am completely and totally outraged.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And completely and totally… Devastated?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Like, how the hell did this happen? And where?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Is the collective response that says, fuck no!
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Not seeing it.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And if I were not leaving, I'd be a lot more involved, but I am leaving, and so it's like, okay, I don't… I don't have the bandwidth right now to be too involved in that.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And I feel some guilt about that, you know?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I love this country.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: all of everything that I was gifted. I'm aware of how much of it came on the backs of
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Exploitation of both land and people elsewhere, but…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: You know, I've had a really great life here, as has…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: you know, so many people that I know, and…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: that seems to be dissolving, and maybe that's what's needed, you know? Civilization, as Gandhi said, is a great idea. I'm not seeing it.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: We're not being very civil here these days.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I'm very concerned about what's gonna happen, and I want to be far away, as things continue to slide
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: More and more, increasingly, accelerated downhill.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So there's just a whole lot of shit going on, at multiple levels.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And…
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: I'm glad I have my practices, you know, to create the space to hold this and not be overwhelmed by it.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And I'm glad I have people in my life to talk to, so that I don't get,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: too overwhelmed by it, but I am overwhelmed by it, you know? It's… it's… there's only so much I can let in and handle before I have to say.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Enough.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: -Oh.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: And the emptying out feels like part of that process of, in order to be able to
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: hold what's going on in the world, I have to queer out a bunch of shit from my life.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Physically and internally.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: So, that's what's… Going on with me these days?
John Warinner: But, if I can jump in here, I've, sincerely apologize for coming in late.
John Warinner: From a few things that have been said.
John Warinner: I feel like I missed one of the main things I would have liked to have heard, which was Kevin talking about watersheds.
John Warinner: But what Ken just said reminded me
John Warinner: About a year ago, I was out in North Carolina. I live in Oregon.
John Warinner: very rarely get to North Carolina.
John Warinner: But since I was there, with a little bit of time to spare.
John Warinner: I looked up Kevin and reached out to him and asked him if I could
John Warinner: Come meet him in person.
John Warinner: he and I had a really nice, chat on the banks of the Swananoa River… on his property.
John Warinner: And, what sticks in my mind
John Warinner: was Kevin mentioned, the concept of retreat.
John Warinner: Kinda like,
John Warinner: prompting me a little bit, like, hey, is this a… is this a topic that you and I should pick up on, and…
John Warinner: bring to OGM, given our shared interest in watersheds and water and hydrology and whatnot.
John Warinner: But, Ken, what you just said…
John Warinner: Strikes me, you know, like, so often.
John Warinner: We look at the world around us, and we…
John Warinner: We notice the changes that everyone else needs to make.
John Warinner: But this letting go that you're doing.
John Warinner: Seems to me like it's exactly what we all need to be doing. Maybe not literally, like, the same way.
John Warinner: But I think… I think this purging and letting go
John Warinner: and you're doing it at a very, very complete level, you know, it sounds like, and I think that's wonderful. Like, I see that as being…
John Warinner: like, like, almost what's necessary for rebirth.
John Warinner: Because we can… we can conceptually say, like, we're being reborn or whatever, you know, but if we're staying in the same domicile with all the same…
John Warinner: You know, trappings, and belongings, and friends, and… And everything else,
John Warinner: you know, we're really not giving up anything, right? Like, we're just…
John Warinner: We're just holding on to what we have.
John Warinner: And, as John Mayer says, waiting for the world to change.
John Warinner: So, I just want to applaud, you know, like, what I hear what I hear you saying…
John Warinner: Including the stepping into the…
John Warinner: you know, the void, or the vortex, or whatever that comes with that, right? Like…
John Warinner: Yeah, like, if you're gonna… if you're gonna truly…
John Warinner: Let go, and release, and… and…
John Warinner: you know, whether you call it a Zen practice, right, like, whatever label you put on it, right? Like…
John Warinner: I think… I think you're doing…
John Warinner: I think you're doing… and I'll just extend that to… I feel like each person that I've heard talk, like Josue, and…
John Warinner: I came on when Klaus was in the middle of his deal, so I don't know that I heard it all.
John Warinner: But then, Jerry, what he said, I feel like every single person
John Warinner: That has spoken this morning, has spoken to me, in a way, of…
John Warinner: like, everything you've said has resonated with a piece of what I am personally doing and going through and working through.
John Warinner: And so I guess I just want to say, like, we're doing it, you know? Like, each of us, in our own way, we're doing what we need to do.
John Warinner: And maybe… maybe the number one ingredient that… that…
John Warinner: That needs to accompany all that is the…
John Warinner: okay-ness with it, right? Like, the… the letting go…
John Warinner: So that… so that we can see, like, you know, on the panarchy curve, this is the…
John Warinner: This is the collapse, or the deconstruction, or the…
John Warinner: whatever you want to call it, that has to precede reconstruction. Like, you can't… you can't reconstruct
John Warinner: And hold everything… everything that we were already…
John Warinner: you know, all our norms or whatever, we can't hold all those constant and reconstruct, you know? It's like…
John Warinner: Reconstruction has to arise from some degree of Disruption and dissolution, and…
John Warinner: Anyway, so I just, like, feeling super grateful for…
John Warinner: for calling in when I did, and… and yeah, regretful that I… that I missed part of what was said here, but, yeah, just thanks… thanks for everybody, and…
John Warinner: I say, Ken, you know, like, more power to you, man. I think you're doing a great thing.
Mike Nelson: I can give a real quick report from Washington, D.C. I really apologize for being late. I was in a meeting on the future of data policy, global, and…
Mike Nelson: Seemed important, and it was.
Mike Nelson: I won't spend much time on the political.
Mike Nelson: You've all been reading both the news and the analysis of the news.
Mike Nelson: A lot of the posts I see are trying to decide whether this is the end of democracy, or just another
Mike Nelson: Donald Trump and family con job. But anyway, I won't go there. It is causing a great deal of depression, a lot of people staying up late at night, or waking up in the middle of the night, and
Mike Nelson: trying to make sense of it, or perhaps figure out what they should do. On my own side,
Mike Nelson: I just got back from Manila and Taipei, had a…
Mike Nelson: very eventful and absolutely fascinating conversation opportunity there to meet some new people.
Mike Nelson: if anybody has heard of the HIRA, Network.
Mike Nelson: H-Y-R-A, And I think their, website is Hira Tech, H-Y-R-A-T-E-C-K. They're based in Vietnam and Dubai, and
Mike Nelson: They string together a lot of buzzwords. Initially, I was incredibly skeptical, because it was blockchain enabling edge computing for AI, you know?
Mike Nelson: But they're doing something with that, and they have a vision, and they have some smart people involved, so I'd be interested in anybody's,
Mike Nelson: Take on that.
Mike Nelson: On the personal side, I've been dealing with some strange symptoms lately, and, met with a neurologist and a neurosurgeon, and
Mike Nelson: this is one of these gray zones where you really can't figure out what's going on. I also learned I had Lyme disease.
Mike Nelson: Either… A month ago, or 10 years ago.
Mike Nelson: Which can cause neurological issues. But, anyway, we're doing some tests, and we're trying to struggle through that. I'm a…
Mike Nelson: firm believer in medical science. I just don't like to have to use it. And when the numbers are like, well, we could do this, and there's an 80% chance, and oh, we don't really know what's causing this.
Mike Nelson: I get skeptical, and I get anxious. So, that's sort of where I'm at. I will keep you informed maybe in a month.
Mike Nelson: If we learn more. I'm also headed to the northern… to the Dolomites in northern Italy in about 10 days, and very much looking forward to spending a week with my wife and four of our best friends, hiking among
Mike Nelson: some of the most beautiful scenery in Italy, which, of course, says it a lot.
Mike Nelson: And I have a quick stop in Zurich, and might see my… The family that my… mothers…
Mike Nelson: grandfather left behind when he left, central Switzerland to come to Minnesota.
Mike Nelson: Anyway, that's where I'm at, and we live in interesting times.
Mike Nelson: And thanks for all the things that people are posting on the list. It's,
Mike Nelson: It's quite a grab bag.
Jerry Michalski: Mike, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: I think that concludes the check-in round. Doug and Stacy said in the chat that they are good to go.
Jerry Michalski: I think we've heard from everybody, so I'm going to, release the hounds.
Jerry Michalski: and see what we'd like to talk about. I will put in links,
Jerry Michalski: to… oh, that's right, Scott! My apologies. Where's Scott?
Scott Moehring: I'm right here.
Jerry Michalski: Did you check in?
Scott Moehring: Yes, I did. I talked about collaboration.
Jerry Michalski: I thought you did, that's right, good.
Scott Moehring: I'm all covered, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: That collaboration may not be the thing we think it is.
Scott Moehring: Correct, yes.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, and I'd love to talk more about that. I had a brief question for Klaus.
Jerry Michalski: Which was, I created recently in my brain two thoughts, basically things that RFK might fix.
Jerry Michalski: at HHS, and things that RFK is fucking up at HHS. And the list of things that he's fucking up include vaccines, research, medical research, data, there's a whole mess of them. But things he might fix are things that I think we would broadly agree with him on.
Jerry Michalski: About, you know, microplastics in the water supply, endocrine disruptors.
Jerry Michalski: food dyes, whatever, whatever. And I'm wondering, Klaus, is there a way for even Sierra Club
Jerry Michalski: To pick a couple of the things that are on the not-the-naughty list, but the good list.
Jerry Michalski: And just push hard to make those things happen.
Jerry Michalski: just make sure the hell that the food… the food system doesn't resist as much, and that some of these things get done, because some of what I've been reading is that
Jerry Michalski: there's very effective resistance by a lot of the big food companies to some of the efforts that… that RFK is trying to, you know, push through, so they're getting watered down, which is how this stuff often… all too often works. But I'm wondering if you break down… some of that stuff is, like, on… on…
Jerry Michalski: The progressive agenda as well.
Klaus Mager: Well, I was one of the voices in the Sarah Club promoting Kennedy in the hope that, his ideas would
Klaus Mager: take hold, and there are now quite a few still hoping for that to happen, and lobbying in this, but I'm increasingly pessimistic. It seems like the industry is totally dominating the conversation.
Klaus Mager: So this, this whole idea of reducing the amount of highly processed foods, particularly towards children.
Klaus Mager: Which, you know, would have had impacts on the agricultural system, right? Because as you're reducing highly processed foods, that means you're reducing high fructose corn syrup, and
Klaus Mager: corn, based, processed foods, and so on.
Klaus Mager: Yeah, no, the pushback is… is fierce, and the voices of Sierra Club and others are being drowned out here. I don't see it happening. I think this entire RFK.
Jerry Michalski: Phenomena is.
Klaus Mager: It's, turning into a pile of, you-know-what.
Jerry Michalski: Alas. Yeah. Thanks, Klaus.
Jerry Michalski: Sean, please?
Shawn Murphy: Yeah.
Kevin Jones: Can I jump in? Because I need to leave quickly and just have a quick statement.
Jerry Michalski: Go for it, Kevin.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, Plex is a good thing. I'm willing to help keep it going if other people want to do that. You know, I just see it…
Kevin Jones: Back in my days as a community weekly newspaper editor, and the people from South Fulton would reach out to Miss Irma Estes, and she would say, their cousins motored in from Memphis, etc.
Kevin Jones: And so I'm willing to help, you know, just do that, and also add that I would, you know, when people say things on this list, I may reach out to you to say, please say more about that, you know, like Scott, say more about collaboration or something. So I would add to what Pete did, but I don't want to do it myself.
Kevin Jones: But I want to be part of doing it, because it's something I like to do.
Jerry Michalski: That sounds awesome, Kevin. I think that's energy Pete would welcome. He's been looking for people to sort of help collect.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, he wants… I can't make it into a Plex thing, but I could… I could reach out to folks and just do a, you know, twice-a-month community news from the open, gambling mind, or whatever we are.
Jerry Michalski: Lake Wobegon.
Kevin Jones: From what's going on, yep. Okay.
Jerry Michalski: And all the children are above average. Now, back to you, Smurp.
Shawn Murphy: Hello there. I would just, just like to comment on the, on the delicious, complexity slash plight that, human beings in general, and us in this group are, suffering from, of, of, this business about
Shawn Murphy: identifying when we're talking about the same thing, and when we're talking about different things, and how to even manage to distinguish those phenomena. Every single word that Jose said earlier.
Shawn Murphy: I could have said or have been sane for…
Shawn Murphy: a decade. And, and so I say a decade because, because I'd been gearing up to, to do, to…
Shawn Murphy: start capturing the real-time sort of video aspect of our inter… of interactions, for a long time, but then finally managed to start implementing some, hyper… so-called hype… I'm calling it hyper-video, is the way I refer to that.
Shawn Murphy: that…
Shawn Murphy: capability suite that, that Jose was identifying. In effect, capturing our interactions all the way from the real time, down through the, the extractions of, of
Shawn Murphy: of the verbiage, down through, and I think maybe, maybe…
Shawn Murphy: I'm going a little farther than is typical here, down to the conceptual
Shawn Murphy: as a semantic extraction. So, in other words, into a machine-understandable representation that's ontology-based.
Shawn Murphy: Okay? So, that's the span, as far as I'm concerned, is, is all the way from, real-time interaction capture,
Shawn Murphy: down through the full… down through the explicit conceptual that is graphable, extractable, navigable, summarizable, etc, in a… in a deep machine-supported way. And so… so, yeah, I…
Shawn Murphy: Jose, oh my god, let's make, let's make beautiful, nerd music together, because, we, we, we shouldn't be, we shouldn't be in separate, silos here if, if we're doing the same work.
Shawn Murphy: Let's figure out how to, how to make some magic together. And, and I'd really love to take up, Scott's point about what is collaboration? Is it really what we think it is? We, we need to get so deep
Shawn Murphy: So much deeper about, about, the micro… microcognitive interactions
Shawn Murphy: that… that constitute, the integration of our mental models. Because really, that's what… that's what this is all about. It is about how our…
Shawn Murphy: How our individual understandings are informed by Bye.
Shawn Murphy: By our onboarding of, of others' insights, and, and how we can manage to,
Shawn Murphy: in the limit and in the large, aggregate those understandings as a superposition across all minds of, into what I would refer to as the merged mental model.
Shawn Murphy: And so that… that's… that's the work that I'm deeply trying to do, is, is make that repository so that… so that we're… we're migrating from, ultimately, from natural language
Shawn Murphy: As this, loose and floppy, interaction modality, into a, in effect, a shared address space
Shawn Murphy: interaction.
Shawn Murphy: on the merged mental model, and I know that's just…
Shawn Murphy: Sounds ludicrously abstract, but… but that… that's… that's…
Shawn Murphy: That's what humanity is straining for, even if it doesn't know that. Okay. Over.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, Sean, thank you. And I think you and Jose both know that Marc-Antoine Perrin is a fellow traveler on your journeys.
Jerry Michalski: And I'm now going to reflect and say that it feels to me like the three of you
Jerry Michalski: This is gonna sound worse than I mean it. The three of you have been working very hard for a very long time to manually do what training in LLM actually does now.
Shawn Murphy: Yesterday.
Jerry Michalski: Yes and no. Yes and no. The unknowable token vector space that's inside of an LLM and gives us back this weird magic of, oh my god, whole thoughts and is doing a lot of what the three of you have been researching and figuring out.
Shawn Murphy: Mark Antoine and Jack Park and I are working very, very closely together, trying to go super deep and, and establish a, a ground
Shawn Murphy: for that kind of intercognitive, exchange that, that is deep and solid, like a… a… a granite upon which, such, such modeling can occur. But, but for clarity, I would distinguish, Jerry, between, between LLM, and LCM, where LCM is,
Shawn Murphy: is the, is terminology that, I…
Shawn Murphy: I'm hearing come out of Meta,
Shawn Murphy: And what they're… one of the things they're trying to do is, is move to a cons… a modeling, a large modeling, foundation, as opposed to a large language foundation.
Shawn Murphy: because of the… of the ambiguities and the… and the kind of the rough statistical quality of LLM approaches.
Shawn Murphy: Where instead, I would suggest that that's not really… that language is the interchange modality, but concepts are what we really want to interconnect. And so we need to be so strict with ourselves about distinguishing between those different modalities.
Jerry Michalski: And we have very little time left in this call, and I love… I love this particular thread, but I'm unclear on that, and would like to learn more, so, let's bounce to… we've got Gil Scott Rick, and maybe a poem.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, let me try to be compact. Sean, it doesn't sound ludicrous, but I've got other things to say about it, which I'll come back to in a minute. I want to stir 3 or 4 other pots that people have set boiling on the stove. Jerry, I'm intrigued by your problem with Improve.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: as being maybe too directive, but I wonder how else a human being can orient in that. Like, better is the same thing as improve, and da-da-da-da. And it's all subjective, and, you know, there's always the possibility that one person's better is somebody else is worse, and so there you go.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which, of course, brings us to the RFK Jr. thing, and the challenge of…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: of dancing with people where you agree on some things and disagree on some things, and we are in a moment in our culture where it seems to be all or nothing, black or white. If somebody's wrong on something, they're wrong on everything. But yesterday, we heard Marjorie Taylor Greene saying she's prepared to stand up in Congress and read the stuff that the Epstein victims have gathered.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Into the public records, so, you know…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The strange thing about united fronts is that you don't have to agree on everything.
Jerry Michalski: topsy-turvy world, is all I can tell.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thanks, buddy.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, and what's your name? Blanking my name,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Bernice Reagan, one of the founders of Sweet Honey and the Rock, was in the Freedom Singers in the early 1960s, and the Civil Rights Movement, notably said at a conference in California back 30-some-odd years ago, he said, if you're in a coalition.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And you're not deeply uncomfortable all the time.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Your coalition's not big enough.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I think that's a challenge for us to consider now, because we're in a cultural moment that goes the other way.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Scott, collaboration really resonated for me, the notion of collaboration as a skill to develop.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: and a culture to develop, and ways of speaking and listening and being that enable that is rich territory, and I hope we come back to that at some point.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sean and Joe say the hyper video, when I think about… I'm trying to write a book or two, and I keep on reminding myself, what if it's not a book? Book is, like, in quotes all the time, because that's one part of the artifact web that we're putting together here. I'm concerned, though.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: About the notion of…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: trying to get it all machine understandable, because I suspect there are things that the machines cannot and will never understand.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I think that's very important territory.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm not…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm not drawn to trying to cram that into machine understandable form. I'm trying… I'm concerned with finding ways that we can enrich that dimension of human
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: being in the world of AIs and emerging alien intelligence and so forth, and so that's a mystery for me that, that's really juicy.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I suspect you guys are oriented to that. No, Jerry, who is the third fellow traveler you mentioned?
Jerry Michalski: Marc Antoine Powell…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay, okay, great. Anyhow, I'm not prepared to dive into this project with you, but I'm very interested in staying aware of what you're up to.
Jerry Michalski: Brilliant.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Thank you, Paul.
Jerry Michalski: Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant.
Jerry Michalski: Scott?
Jerry Michalski: We are muted.
Scott Moehring: Very quickly, I also agree with Gil that the nature of improve doesn't bother me much. I think if you're open to feedback, you do your best, and we're all searching for what better is.
Scott Moehring: So I'm good with that. Ken, I made a… had a realization years ago that after leaving school, the only clean break we get is taking a new job.
Scott Moehring: And I realized that I missed it. It was the semester break, it was the end, it was the new books, it was… you know what? However that went.
Scott Moehring: it's done. And now I'm… And I missed it, because I was always working, and I never had that…
Scott Moehring: that break, you know, when you work someplace for a decade, it's just the same. So, that's enough for me.
Jerry Michalski: Scott, thank you. And, if I may say, I think your question about, is collaboration a thing, might be next Thursday's call topic. It sounds like a really nice thing to dive into, so…
Jerry Michalski: If you want to say… if you wouldn't mind sending me a message with a little bit, just a couple paragraphs on what you mean by your question, so that… so that I aim toward what you mean, not toward what I'm thinking you mean, that would be great.
Jerry Michalski: Rick, please.
Rick Botelho: Yeah, I'm glad this scene of collaboration is ricocheting, because I think it's one of those things that… it's quite complex, and we need to be much better at it.
Rick Botelho: And to highlight a point that Gil was talking about, having a coalition big enough so you can have more healthy disagreements, because that's where the greatest learning happens. I'll put in a point of view of difference here, which we won't have time to discuss.
Rick Botelho: But, when I heard Jose talking about, content curation, I'm actually more interested in process curation.
Rick Botelho: And for that reason, I'm not interested in neobooks. I'm interested in neo-learning, which is more dynamic from my perspective, learning, and thinking about how we can use platforms for that, so it's much more agile.
Rick Botelho: Everything you said, I agree with, the elements of it, but take it to the process level, because if we can't get our process sorted out, we can't do our collaboration. All the content and collaborations is useless unless we know how to do the process.
Rick Botelho: So, just to demonstrate that I do listen to people about their criticisms about my compound philosophical questions, I put a link in there for people who are curious to understand compound philosophical questions, and the reasons why we have to shift to slow thinking to deal with complexity.
Rick Botelho: And lastly, I go to a group which some of you may know about. It's called CHAO out of Belgium, which is a change management, change agent group, and their focus is on collaboration. I'll put the link in there. Their meeting is on, Friday mornings at,
Rick Botelho: I think it's 9… 8.45, Eastern Time. I'll put the link in there as well, if people would like to learn from a European perspective about their thinking about, collaboration, and that's what they're… it's an interesting group, anyway, I'll put that link in as well.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you, Rick. Stacy, you're going to have the penultimate word.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, real quick, because I was triggered by Marjorie Taylor Greene, who I obviously would not want to be as a, you know, sit down to dinner with her or be near her. That being said, I want to just highlight the importance. She really is a true believer, and I just want to highlight how important it is to deal with people that are true to their beliefs, whether or not we like them or not.
Stacey Druss: To know that
Stacey Druss: say is what they're going to stand by, which is not what we have with most of the politicians. So I just want to, once again, reiterate that, even in dealing with
Stacey Druss: Who we deal with in our lives.
Stacey Druss: Over.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much, and, and…
Jerry Michalski: There's something about people being really authentic and true to their core, even if we hate what they're saying, that's important, and…
Jerry Michalski: we shouldn't just ignore or wander away from. So, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Sir Ken.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: This poem is called Game by Maxine Koeman. Before he died, Archduke Ferdinand… Archduke Franz Ferdinand, gunned down in Sarajevo to jumpstart World War I,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Bragged that he had shot 3,000 stags and a miscellaneous foxes, geese, wolves, and boars, driven toward him by beaters.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Stout men he ordered to flush the creatures from their cover into his sights, a tradition.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: of the British aristocracy. Carried on.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Further aped by rich Americans, from Teddy R. to Ernest H,
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Something Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, Padgison of a Sicilian immigrant, indulged in years later when he had scores of farm-raised birds beaten from their cages and scared up for him to shoot down, which brought him an inner joy.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: What happened to him when he was a boy?
Mike Nelson: Goddamn. Wow.
Jerry Michalski: Well, Ken, please, again? That's, like, wow. That's just like a layup poem, somehow. It's, like, completely non-obvious, but it's like, OMG, they went right to the heart of something important, so… wow.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Game, Maxine Koeman.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Before he died, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, gunned down in Sarajevo to jumpstart World War I, bragged that he had shot 3,000 stags and a miscellany of foxes, geese, wolves, and boars, driven toward him by beaters.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Stout men he ordered to flush creatures from their cover into his sights, a tradition of the British aristocracy, carried on, further aped by rich Americans from Teddy R. to Ernest H, something Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: pudgy son of Sicilian immigrants indulged in years later, when he had scores of farm-raised birds beaten from their cages and scared up for him to shoot down, which brought him an inner joy.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: What happened to him when he was a boy?
Jerry Michalski: Just awesome.
Mike Nelson: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: So sobering.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you all.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And the author's name again?
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: Maxine… Kuman, K-U-M-I-N.
Jerry Michalski: K-U-M-I-N, Maxine Kuhman.
Jerry Michalski: And he will, as usual, post the poem to the OGM list so you can have it later. I think we have a nice topic for next Thursday, and thank you for all showing up so beautifully.
Jerry Michalski: The ladies of OGM were underrepresented today, which makes me sad, but, so it was.
Jerry Michalski: There we are.
Jerry Michalski: See you next Thursday.
Ken Homer • SF Bay Area: go.
Jerry Michalski: So…